feat(cloudwatch): dashboard variables (#26285)
aws/aws-cdk: packages/aws-cdk-lib/aws-cloudwatch/README.md

```

Here, the dashboard would show the metrics for the last 7 days.

### Dashboard variables

> Dashboard variables are a convenient way to create flexible dashboards which allow to quickly display different content depending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dashboard variables are a convenient way to create flexible dashboards that display different content depending
```

on the value of an input field within a dashboard. They allow to create a dashboard on which it's possible to quickly switch between

> different Lambda functions, Amazon EC2 instances etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
different Lambda functions, Amazon EC2 instances, etc.
```

You can learn more about Dashboard variables in the [Amazon Cloudwatch User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/cloudwatch_dashboard_variables.html)

There are two types of dashboard variables available: a property variable and a pattern variable.

> - Property variable allows to change any JSON property in the JSON source of a dashboard like `region`. It can also change dimension name for a metric.
> - Pattern variable allows to use a regular expression pattern to change all of a JSON property or only part of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Property variables can change any JSON property in the JSON source of a dashboard like `region`. It can also change the dimension name for a metric.
- Pattern variables use a regular expression pattern to change all or part of a JSON property.
```

> The **property variable** to change the `region` property can be added to the dashboard as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A use case of a **property variable** is a dashboard with the ability to toggle the `region` property to see the same dashboard in different regions:
```

```ts
import * as cw from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-cloudwatch';

const dashboard = new cw.Dashboard(this, 'Dash', {
  defaultInterval: Duration.days(7),
  variables: [new cw.ValueDashboardVariable({
    type: cw.VariableType.PROPERTY,
    value: 'region',
    inputType: cw.VariableInputType.RADIO,
    id: 'region',
    label: 'Region',
    defaultValue: 'us-east-1',
    visible: true,
    values: [{ label: 'IAD', value: 'us-east-1' }, { label: 'DUB', value: 'us-west-2' }],
  })],
});
```

> This example shows how to change `region` everywhere, assuming the current dashboard is showing region `us-east-1` already, by using **pattern variable**

Reviewer: I don't really understand what is going on in this example and/or the use case. I'm not sure why `value` and `defaultValue` is `us-east-1`

Author: `defaultValue` is the one to show on the dashboard from the beginning. The `value` corresponds to the part of the Dashboard json which will be replaced as a result of using this variable. so if we look at the dashboard json the `value` part will help to generate ` "pattern": "us-east-1",` part

The API doc has the same example:

```
"variables": [
    {
        "type": "pattern",
        "pattern": "us-east-1",
        "inputType": "input",
        "id": "region",
        "label": "Region",
        "defaultValue": "us-east-1",
        "visible": true
    }
], 
```

```ts
import * as cw from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-cloudwatch';

const dashboard = new cw.Dashboard(this, 'Dash', {
  defaultInterval: Duration.days(7),
  variables: [new cw.ValueDashboardVariable({
    type: cw.VariableType.PATTERN,
    value: 'us-east-1',
    inputType: cw.VariableInputType.INPUT,
    id: 'region2',
    label: 'RegionPattern',
    defaultValue: 'us-east-1',
    visible: true,
  })],
});
```

You can add a variable after object instantiation with the method

> `addVariable()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dashboard.addVariable()`.
```

    inputType: cw.VariableInputType.RADIO,
    value: 'region',
    values: cw.Values.fromValues({ label: 'IAD', value: 'us-east-1' }, { label: 'DUB', value: 'us-west-2' }),
    defaultValue: cw.DefaultValue.of('us-east-1'),
    visible: true,
  })],
});
```

This example shows how to change `region` everywhere, assuming the current dashboard is showing region `us-east-1` already, by using **pattern variable**
```ts
import * as cw from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-cloudwatch';

const dashboard = new cw.Dashboard(this, 'Dash', {
  defaultInterval: Duration.days(7),
  variables: [new cw.DashboardVariable({
    id: 'region2',
    type: cw.VariableType.PATTERN,
    label: 'RegionPattern',
    inputType: cw.VariableInputType.INPUT,
    value: 'us-east-1',
    defaultValue: cw.DefaultValue.of('us-east-1'),
    visible: true,
  })],
});
```

The following example generates a Lambda function variable, with a radio button for each function. Functions are discovered by a metric query search.
The `values` with `cw.Values.fromSearchComponents` indicates that the values will be populated from `FunctionName` values retrieved from the search expression `{AWS/Lambda,FunctionName} MetricName=\"Duration\"`.

> The `defaultValue` with `cw.DefaultValue.FIRST` indicates that the  default value will be the first value returned from the search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultValue` with `cw.DefaultValue.FIRST` indicates that the default value will be the first value returned from the search.
```

```ts
import * as cw from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-cloudwatch';

const dashboard = new cw.Dashboard(this, 'Dash', {
  defaultInterval: Duration.days(7),
  variables: [new cw.SearchDashboardVariable({
    id: 'functionName',
    type: cw.VariableType.PATTERN,
    label: 'Function',
    inputType: cw.VariableInputType.RADIO,
    value: 'originalFuncNameInDashboard',

>     values: cw.Values.fromSearchComponents('AWS/Lambda', ['FunctionName'], 'Duration', 'FunctionName'), // equivalent to cw.Values.fromSearch('{AWS/Lambda,FunctionName} MetricName=\"Duration\"', 'FunctionName'),

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    // equivalent to cw.Values.fromSearch('{AWS/Lambda,FunctionName} MetricName=\"Duration\"', 'FunctionName'),
    values: cw.Values.fromSearchComponents('AWS/Lambda', ['FunctionName'], 'Duration', 'FunctionName'),
```

```ts
import * as cw from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-cloudwatch';

const dashboard = new cw.Dashboard(this, 'Dash', {
  defaultInterval: Duration.days(7),
  variables: [new cw.ValueDashboardVariable({
    type: cw.VariableType.PROPERTY,
    value: 'region',
    inputType: cw.VariableInputType.RADIO,
    id: 'region',
    label: 'Region',
    defaultValue: 'us-east-1',
    visible: true,
    values: [{ label: 'IAD', value: 'us-east-1' }, { label: 'DUB', value: 'us-west-2' }],
  })],
});
```

This example shows how to change `region` everywhere, assuming the current dashboard is showing region `us-east-1` already, by using **pattern variable**
```ts
import * as cw from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-cloudwatch';

const dashboard = new cw.Dashboard(this, 'Dash', {
  defaultInterval: Duration.days(7),
  variables: [new cw.ValueDashboardVariable({
    type: cw.VariableType.PATTERN,
    value: 'us-east-1',
    inputType: cw.VariableInputType.INPUT,
    id: 'region2',
    label: 'RegionPattern',
    defaultValue: 'us-east-1',
    visible: true,
  })],
});
```

The following example generates a Lambda function variable, with a radio button for each function. Functions are discovered by a metric query search.

> The `defaultValue` with `__FIRST` indicates that the  default value will be the first value returned from the search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultValue` with `__FIRST` indicates that the default value will be the first value returned from the search.
```
